Add Peer Forwarder to doc website repo (#2373)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _data-prepper/peer-forwarder.md

---
layout: default
title: Peer Forwarder
nav_order: 12
---

# Peer Forwarder

> Peer Forwarder is an HTTP service that performs peer forwarding of an `event` between Data Prepper nodes for aggregation. This HTTP service uses a hash-ring approach to aggregate events and determine which Data Prepper node should handle on a given trace before rerouting it to that node. Currently, Peer Forwarder is supported by the `aggregate`, `service_map_stateful`, and `otel_trace_raw` processors.

Reviewer: What is the context of these processors? Would it be possible to link to a page explaining them?

> Peer Forwarder is an HTTP service that performs peer forwarding of an `event` between Data Prepper nodes for aggregation. This HTTP service uses a hash-ring approach to aggregate events and determine which Data Prepper node should handle on a given trace before rerouting it to that node. Currently, Peer Forwarder is supported by the `aggregate`, `service_map_stateful`, and `otel_trace_raw` [processors]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/configuration/processors/processors/).

Reviewer 2: "... and determine which Data Prepper node **it** should handle on a given trace ..." ?

Peer Forwarder groups events based on the identification keys provided by the processors. For `service_map_stateful` and `otel_trace_raw`, the identification key is `traceId` by default and cannot be configured. The `aggregate` processor is configured using the `identification_keys` configuration option. From here, you can specify which keys to use for Peer Forwarder. See [Aggregate Processor page](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/tree/main/data-prepper-plugins/aggregate-processor#identification_keys) for more information about identification keys.

> Peer discovery is currently provided by a static list, a DNS record lookup, or AWS Cloud Map.  

Author: @dlvenable Can we get some more information on peer discovery to better establish context here?

> Peer discovery is currently provided by a static list, a DNS record lookup, or AWS Cloud Map.  

Reviewer 3: The peers are other Data Prepper nodes in the same cluster. So "peer discovery" is where Data Prepper finds the other nodes that it will communicate with.

> Peer Forwarder groups events based on the identification keys provided by the processors. For `service_map_stateful` and `otel_trace_raw`, the identification key is `traceId` by default and cannot be configured. The `aggregate` processor is configured using the `identification_keys` configuration option. From here, you can specify which keys to use for Peer Forwarder. See [Aggregate Processor page](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/tree/main/data-prepper-plugins/aggregate-processor#identification_keys) for more information about identification keys.

Reviewer: "by the supported processors" maybe?

> Peer discovery allows Data Prepper to find other nodes that it will communicate with. Currently, peer discovery is currently provided by a static list, a DNS record lookup, or AWS Cloud Map.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Peer discovery allows Data Prepper to find other nodes that it will communicate with. Currently, peer discovery is provided by a static list, a DNS record lookup, or an AWS Cloud Map.  
```

> Peer discovery allows Data Prepper to find other nodes that it will communicate with. Currently, peer discovery is provided by a static list, a DNS record lookup, or anAWS Cloud Map.  

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Peer discovery allows Data Prepper to find other nodes that it will communicate with. Currently, peer discovery is provided by a static list, a DNS record lookup, or AWS Cloud Map.  
```

## Discovery modes

The following sections provide information about discovery modes.

### Static

Static discovery mode allows a Data Prepper node to discover nodes using a list of IP addresses or domain names. See the following YAML file for an example of static discovery mode:

```yaml
peer_forwarder:4
  discovery_mode: static
  static_endpoints: ["data-prepper1", "data-prepper2"]
```

### DNS lookup

> DNS discovery is preferred over static discovery when scaling out a Data Prepper cluster. DNS discovery configures a DNS provider to return a list of Data Prepper hosts when given a single domain name. This list is a [DNS A record](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/dns/dns-records/dns-a-record/), and a list of IP addresses of a given domain. See the following YAML file example of DNS lookup:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
DNS discovery is preferred over static discovery when scaling out a Data Prepper cluster. DNS discovery configures a DNS provider to return a list of Data Prepper hosts when given a single domain name. This list consists of a [DNS A record](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/dns/dns-records/dns-a-record/) and a list of IP addresses of a given domain. See the following YAML file for an example of DNS lookup:
```

```yaml
peer_forwarder:
  discovery_mode: dns
  domain_name: "data-prepper-cluster.my-domain.net"
```

### AWS Cloud Map

[AWS Cloud Map](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloud-map/latest/dg/what-is-cloud-map.html) provides API-based service discovery as well as DNS-based service discovery.

> Peer Forwarder can use the API-based service discovery. To support this, you must have an existing namespace configured for API instance discovery. You can create a new one by following the instructions provided by the [AWS Cloud Map documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloud-map/latest/dg/working-with-namespaces.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Peer Forwarder can use the API-based service discovery in AWS Cloud Map. To support this, you must have an existing namespace configured for API instance discovery. You can create a new one by following the instructions provided by the [AWS Cloud Map documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloud-map/latest/dg/working-with-namespaces.html).
```

Your Data Prepper configuration needs to include the following:
* `aws_cloud_map_namespace_name` – Set to your AWS Cloud Map namespace name.
* `aws_cloud_map_service_name` – Set to the service name within your specified namespace.
* `aws_region` – Set to the AWS Region where your namespace exists.
* `discovery_mode` – Set to `aws_cloud_map`.

Your Data Prepper configuration can optionally include the following:

> * `aws_cloud_map_query_parameters` – Key-value pairs are used to filter the results based on the custom attributes attached to an instance. Only instances that match all the specified key-value pairs are returned.

Reviewer 2: "Results include only those instances that match all of the specified key-value pairs." ?

> * `aws_region` – Set to the AWS Region where your namespace exists.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* `aws_region` – Set to the AWS Region in which your namespace exists.
```

#### Example configuration

See the following yaml file example of AWS Cloud Map configuration:

```yaml
peer_forwarder:
  discovery_mode: aws_cloud_map
  aws_cloud_map_namespace_name: "my-namespace"
  aws_cloud_map_service_name: "data-prepper-cluster"
  aws_cloud_map_query_parameters:
    instance_type: "r5.xlarge"
  aws_region: "us-east-1"
```

### IAM policy with necessary permissions

Data Prepper must also be running with the necessary permissions. The following AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) policy shows the necessary permissions:

```json
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Sid": "CloudMapPeerForwarder",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": "servicediscovery:DiscoverInstances",
            "Resource": "*"
        }
    ]
}
```

## Configuration

The following table provides optional configuration values.

> | Value | Description |

Author: @natebower I agree with Chris on this and think this section could benefit from this change. Do you agree?

| ----  | --- |  ----------- |

> | `port` | Integer | A value between 0 and 65535 represents the port that the Peer Forwarder server is running on. Default value is `4994`. |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| `port` | Integer | A value between 0 and 65535 that represents the port that the Peer Forwarder server is running on. Default value is `4994`. |
```

|  `domain_name` | String | Represents the single domain name to query DNS against. Typically used by creating multiple [DNS A records](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/dns/dns-records/dns-a-record/) for the same domain. Required if `discovery_mode` is set to `dns`. |
| `aws_cloud_map_namespace_name`  | String | Represents the AWS Cloud Map namespace when using AWS Cloud Map service discovery. Required if `discovery_mode` is set to `aws_cloud_map`.  |
| `aws_cloud_map_service_name` | String | Represents the AWS Cloud Map service when using AWS Cloud Map service discovery. Required if `discovery_mode` is set to `aws_cloud_map`. |
| `aws_cloud_map_query_parameters`  | Map | Key-value pairs used to filter the results based on the custom attributes attached to an instance. Only instances that match all the specified key-value pairs are returned. |
| `buffer_size` | Integer | Represents the maximum number of unchecked records the buffer accepts (the number of unchecked records equals the number of records written into the buffer plus the number of records that are still processing and not yet checked by the Checkpointing API). Default is `512`. |

> | `batch_size` |  Integer | Representing max number of records the buffer returns on read. Default is `48`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `batch_size` |  Integer | Represents the max number of records the buffer returns on read. Default is `48`. |
```

> |  `aws_region` |  A `String` represents the AWS Region to use `ACM`, `S3` or `AWS Cloud Map`. Required if `use_acm_certificate_for_ssl` is set to `true` or `ssl_certificate_file`,  and `ssl_key_file` is set to the `AWS S3` path, or if `discovery_mode` is set to `aws_cloud_map`. |

Author: @dlvenable Need some clarification on this one as well.

> |  `aws_region` |  A `String` represents the AWS Region to use `ACM`, `S3` or `AWS Cloud Map`. Required if `use_acm_certificate_for_ssl` is set to `true` or `ssl_certificate_file`,  and `ssl_key_file` is set to the `AWS S3` path, or if `discovery_mode` is set to `aws_cloud_map`. |

Reviewer 5: @cwillum There are three conditions here
`aws_region` is required if any of the following is true
1. `use_acm_certificate_for_ssl` is set to `true`
2.  `ssl_certificate_file` and `ssl_key_file` is set to the AWS S3 path
3. `discovery_mode` is set to `aws_cloud_map`.

> |  `aws_region` |  A `String` represents the AWS Region to use `ACM`, `S3` or `AWS Cloud Map`. Required if `use_acm_certificate_for_ssl` is set to `true` or `ssl_certificate_file`,  and `ssl_key_file` is set to the `AWS S3` path, or if `discovery_mode` is set to `aws_cloud_map`. |

Reviewer 3: > ssl_certificate_file and ssl_key_file is set to the AWS S3 path

One additional point of clarification. This means that the administrator entered a value which is an S3 URI - for example `s3://mybucket/path/to/public.cert`.

> |  `aws_region` |  A `String` represents the AWS Region to use `ACM`, `S3` or `AWS Cloud Map`. Required if `use_acm_certificate_for_ssl` is set to `true` or `ssl_certificate_file`,  and `ssl_key_file` is set to the `AWS S3` path, or if `discovery_mode` is set to `aws_cloud_map`. |

Reviewer 2: Maybe something like this, then:
"`aws_region` is required when any of the following conditions are met: 1) `use_acm_certificate_for_ssl` is set to true; 2) `ssl_certificate_file` and `ssl_key_file` are set to the AWS S3 URI (for example, `s3://mybucket/path/to/public.cert`); or 3) `discovery_mode` is set to `aws_cloud_map`.

For the second condition, I just want to be sure that the two properties `ssl_certificate_file` and `ssl_key_file` are set to the same URI (not just one or the other).

> |  `aws_region` |  A `String` represents the AWS Region to use `ACM`, `S3` or `AWS Cloud Map`. Required if `use_acm_certificate_for_ssl` is set to `true` or `ssl_certificate_file`,  and `ssl_key_file` is set to the `AWS S3` path, or if `discovery_mode` is set to `aws_cloud_map`. |

Reviewer 3: > For the second condition, I just want to be sure that both the two properties ssl_certificate_file and ssl_key_file specify the same URI (not just one or the other). Thanks for the feedback.

These are distinct properties. I believe it is possible for one to be an S3 URI and the other a local file path.

So I might say:

> 2) ssl_certificate_file or ssl_key_file are set to an AWS S3 URI (for example, s3://mybucket/path/to/public.cert); 

Also, note that it I think you should use the indefinite article here - "set to an AWS S3 URI".

> |  `aws_region` |  A `String` represents the AWS Region to use `ACM`, `S3` or `AWS Cloud Map`. Required if `use_acm_certificate_for_ssl` is set to `true` or `ssl_certificate_file`,  and `ssl_key_file` is set to the `AWS S3` path, or if `discovery_mode` is set to `aws_cloud_map`. |

Reviewer 2: @dlvenable @asifsmohammed 
OK, when one or the other specifies an AWS S3 URI. Thanks for the clarification. 
Also, In our style guide, we decided to call key/value pairs "settings". So I think we can go with this ...

"`aws_region` is required when any of the following conditions are met: 1) the `use_acm_certificate_for_ssl` setting is `true`; 2) either `ssl_certificate_file` or `ssl_key_file` specifies an AWS S3 URI (for example, s3://mybucket/path/to/public.cert); or 3) the `discovery_mode` setting is `aws_cloud_map`.

@carolxob In running text it would be clearer to set these conditions in bullet points. Since this definition falls in a table, we might run this formatting option by the team to get some opinions on whether this style works in a table. If not, we can still list them as above.

> | `batch_size` |  Integer | Representing max number of records the buffer returns on read. Default is `48`. |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| `batch_size` |  Integer | Represents the maximum number of records the buffer returns on read. Default is `48`. |
```

> |  `aws_region` |  String | Represents the AWS Region to use `ACM`, `S3` or `AWS Cloud Map` and is required when any of the following conditions are met:<br> - The `use_acm_certificate_for_ssl` setting is `true`. <br> - Either `ssl_certificate_file` or `ssl_key_file` specifies an AWS S3 URI (for example, s3://mybucket/path/to/public.cert).<br> - The `discovery_mode` setting is `aws_cloud_map`. |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
|  `aws_region` |  String | Represents the AWS Region to use `ACM`, `S3` or `AWS Cloud Map` and is required when any of the following conditions are met:<br> - The `use_acm_certificate_for_ssl` setting is set to `true`. <br> - Either `ssl_certificate_file` or `ssl_key_file` specifies an Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) URI (for example, s3://mybucket/path/to/public.cert).<br> - The `discovery_mode` setting is set to `aws_cloud_map`. |
```

Reviewer 4: The first sentence here is unclear (it's not clear what is taking the action).

> | `drain_timeout`  | Duration | Represents the wait time for the Peer Forwarder to complete processing data before shutdown. |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| `drain_timeout`  | Duration | Represents the amount of time that Peer Forwarder will wait to complete data processing before shutdown. |
```

## SSL configuration

> The following SSL configuration table provides optional SSL configuration values and allows you to set up trust manager for the peer forwarding client to connect to other Data Prepper instances.

Reviewer 4: This sentence is unclear. The table doesn't allow the reader to do this. Please simplify/clarify.

Reviewer 4: Also, is "trust manager" a proper noun here?

Reviewer 4: "Peer Forwarder client"?

Author: @engechas

Reviewer 6: Trust manager refers to an SSL concept. In the [docs for the base interface](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/javax/net/ssl/TrustManager.html), they use lower case "trust managers" so I would lean that way.

Peer Forwarder is a proper noun, I would go with "Peer Forwarder client" as Nate suggests.

| Value | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- |
| `ssl` | Boolean | Enables TLS/SSL. Default value is `true`. |

> | `ssl_certificate_file`| String | Representings the SSL certificate chain file path or Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) path. The following is an example of an Amazon S3 path: `s3://<bucketName>/<path>`. Defaults to the default certificate file,`config/default_certificate.pem`. See [Default Certificates](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/tree/main/examples/certificates) for more information about how the certificate is generated. |

Reviewer: Representings?

> | `ssl_certificate_file`| String | Represents the SSL certificate chain file path or Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) path. The following is an example of an Amazon S3 path: `s3://<bucketName>/<path>`. Defaults to the default certificate file,`config/default_certificate.pem`. See [Default Certificates](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/tree/main/examples/certificates) for more information about how the certificate is generated. |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| `ssl_certificate_file`| String | Represents the SSL certificate chain file path or Amazon S3 path. The following is an example of an Amazon S3 path: `s3://<bucketName>/<path>`. Defaults to the default certificate file,`config/default_certificate.pem`. See [Default Certificates](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/tree/main/examples/certificates) for more information about how the certificate is generated. |
```

> | `ssl_key_file`| String | Represents the SSL key file path or AWS S3 path. S3 path example `s3://<bucketName>/<path>`. Defaults to `config/default_private_key.pem` which is default private key file. Read more about how the private key file is generated at the [Default Certificates](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/tree/main/examples/certificates) page. |

Reviewer 2: "Defaults to `config/default_private_key.pem`, which is **the** default private key file." ?

> | `ssl_key_file`| String | Represents the SSL key file path or AWS S3 path. S3 path example `s3://<bucketName>/<path>`. Defaults to `config/default_private_key.pem` which is the default private key file. Read more about how the private key file is generated at the [Default Certificates](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/tree/main/examples/certificates) page. |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| `ssl_key_file`| String | Represents the SSL key file path or Amazon S3 path. Amazon S3 path example: `s3://<bucketName>/<path>`. Defaults to `config/default_private_key.pem`, which is the default private key file. See [Default Certificates](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/tree/main/examples/certificates) for more information about how the private key file is generated. |
```

> | `ssl_insecure_disable_verification` | Boolean | that disables the verification of the server's TLS certificate chain. Default value is `false`. |

Reviewer: This seems like it's only half of a sentence.

| `ssl_fingerprint_verification_only` | Boolean | Disables the verification of the server's TLS certificate chain and instead verifies only the certificate fingerprint. Default value is `false`. |
| `use_acm_certificate_for_ssl` | Boolean | Enables TLS/SSL using the certificate and private key from AWS Certificate Manager (ACM). Default value is `false`. |

> | `acm_certificate_arn`| String | Represents the ACM certificate Amazon Resource Name (ARN). The ACM certificate takes precedence over S3 or the local file system certificate. Required if `use_acm_certificate_for_ssl` is set to `true`. |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| `acm_certificate_arn`| String | Represents the ACM certificate Amazon Resource Name (ARN). The ACM certificate takes precedence over Amazon S3 or the local file system certificate. Required if `use_acm_certificate_for_ssl` is set to `true`. |
```

| `acm_private_key_password` | String | Represents the ACM private key password that will be used to decrypt the private key. If it's not provided, a random password will be generated. |

> | `acm_certificate_timeout_millis` | Integer |representing the timeout in milliseconds required for ACM to get certificates. Default value is `120000`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `acm_certificate_timeout_millis` | Integer | Represents the timeout in milliseconds required for ACM to get certificates. Default value is `120000`. |
```

> | `aws_region` | String | Represents the AWS Region that uses `ACM`, `S3` or `AWS Cloud Map`. Required if `use_acm_certificate_for_ssl` is set to `true` or `ssl_certificate_file`. Also required when the `ssl_key_file` is set to the `AWS S3` path, or if `discovery_mode` is set to `aws_cloud_map`. |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| `aws_region` | String | Represents the AWS Region that uses `ACM`, `S3`, or `AWS Cloud Map`. Required if `use_acm_certificate_for_ssl` is set to `true` or `ssl_certificate_file`. Also required when the `ssl_key_file` is set to the `AWS S3` path or if `discovery_mode` is set to `aws_cloud_map`. |
```

Reviewer 4: Is the path actually named `AWS S3`?

Author: @engechas Can you confirm?

Reviewer 6: No, the path would be something of the format `s3://<bucketName>/<path>`. More info here: https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/blob/main/docs/peer_forwarder.md#ssl

Reviewer 4: @carolxob Ensure the items in code format reflect the actual names of what we're referencing. I noticed this one because the service is named "Amazon S3" and not "AWS S3".

Reviewer 4: @engechas It would be helpful if you could review the text and suggest what it should say in order to be technically accurate. If `AWS S3` is wrong here, what should the text say instead?

Reviewer: @natebower @carolxob the path that @engechas is listing here is what. you would use in regards to using the AWS CLI or in a configuration file. The service itself is called "Amazon S3" as Nathan mentioned and if you want to get really specific, Amazon refers to an S3 path as "a path-style URL." Is the ask here then to clarify the wording in regards to service names and terminology and or are we asking to add an example path here? I kinda feel like the latter wouldn't be necessarily anyways in talking about regions as they have a different format such as `us-west-2`

Reviewer 4: @ariamarble For my purposes, I'm just looking for the text to be technically accurate, so yes, just to clarify the wording.

Reviewer: @natebower ok cool. so then yeah I would think that "Amazon S3 path" would be technically accurate.

Reviewer 3: > is set to the `AWS S3` path

I think you could reword this to:

> is configured to use an Amazon S3 URL.

Reviewer 3: Taking another look, we use the term "Amazon S3 path" above (on line 117) for the `ssl_key_file` value. So perhaps:

> is configured to use an Amazon S3 path.

#### Example configuration

The following yaml file provides an example configuration:

```yaml
peer_forwarder:
  ssl: true
  ssl_certificate_file: "<cert-file-path>"
  ssl_key_file: "<private-key-file-path>"
```

## Authentication

> `Authentication` is optional and is a `Map` that enables mTLS. It can either be `mutual_tls` or `unauthenticated`. The default value is `unauthenticated`. The following yaml file provides an exmaple for authentication:

Reviewer 2: "... that enables mutual TLS (mTLS)."

> | `aws_region` | String | Represents the AWS Region that uses `ACM`, `Amazon S3`, or `AWS Cloud Map`. Required if `use_acm_certificate_for_ssl` is set to `true` or `ssl_certificate_file`. Also required when the `ssl_key_file` is set to the `Amazon S3` path, or if `discovery_mode` is set to `aws_cloud_map`. |

Reviewer 3: I suggested the following text above:

> is set to the `Amazon S3` path

I think the important points are: 1) This should use an indefinite article as there are many unlimited Amazon S3 paths available. 2) This should not have the code formatting (using the backticks).

> `Authentication` is optional and is a `Map` that enables mutual TLS (mTLS). It can either be `mutual_tls` or `unauthenticated`. The default value is `unauthenticated`. The following YAML file provides an exmaple for authentication:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
`Authentication` is optional and is a `Map` that enables mutual TLS (mTLS). It can either be `mutual_tls` or `unauthenticated`. The default value is `unauthenticated`. The following YAML file provides an example of authentication:
```

```yaml
peer_forwarder:
  authentication:
    mutual_tls:
```

## Metrics

Core Peer Forwarder introduces the following custom metrics. All the metrics are prefixed by `core.peerForwarder`.

### Timer

Peer Forwarder's timer capability provides the following information:

- `requestForwardingLatency`: Measures latency of requests forwarded by the Peer Forwarder client.
- `requestProcessingLatency`: Measures latency of requests processed by the Peer Forwarder server.

### Counter

The following table provides counter metric options.

| Value | Description |
| ----- | ----------- |
| `requests`| Measures the total number of forwarded requests. |

> | `requestsFailed`| Measures the total number of failed requests. Applies to requests with HTTP response code other than `200`. |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| `requestsFailed`| Measures the total number of failed requests. Applies to requests with an HTTP response code other than `200`. |
```

| `requestsSuccessful`|  Measures the total number of successful requests. Applies to requests with HTTP response code `200`. |
| `requestsTooLarge`| Measures the total number of requests that are too large to be written to the Peer Forwarder buffer. Applies to requests with HTTP response code `413`. |
| `requestTimeouts`| Measures the total number of requests that time out while writing content to the Peer Forwarder buffer. Applies to requests with HTTP response code `408`. |
| `requestsUnprocessable`| Measures the total number of requests that fail due to an unprocessable entity. Applies to requests with HTTP response code `422`. |

> | `badRequests`| Measures the total number of requests with bad request format. Applies to requests with HTTP response code `400`. |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| `badRequests`| Measures the total number of requests with a bad request format. Applies to requests with HTTP response code `400`. |
```

| `recordsSuccessfullyForwarded`| Measures the total number of successfully forwarded records. |

> | `recordsFailedForwarding`| Measures the total number of records fail to be forwarded. |

Reviewer 2: "Measures the total number of records **that** fail to be forwarded." ?
